# Abstract
Electrocardiogram (ECG) machines are critical pieces of equipment for detecting abnormalities in heart rhythms and providing early indications of potential heart-related issues. However, remote healthcare clinics often lack reliable access to electrical power and may operate in harsh environmental conditions. These challenges limit their ability to use essential medical equipment for patient screening or monitoring. 
Therefore, there is a need for a portable ECG machine that can accurately measure, detect, and classify abnormal heart rhythms while relying on renewable energy sources to provide electrical power. The ECG machine must be portable and weatherproof to be deployed in various environmental conditions. This is advantageous for areas with limited access to professional healthcare or connections to an electrical grid. The system must be user-friendly, and the non-diagnostic arrhythmia classification must be intuitive to providers with varying levels of medical training. The Pulse Pioneer team aimed to meet all these requirements. 

The device, measuring 11.02 x 10.00 x 2.20 inches, can easily be carried within a standard backpack and has achieved an ingress protection rating of IP55. It supports five days of nominal use when fully charged and can easily recharge the battery with a solar panel. The system currently supports single-channel Lead I measurements using a standard four-wire ECG configuration. Users can view a patient’s heart rhythm on the LCD screen with minimal delay, and easily interface with the system using buttons, switches, and a rotary encoder. All internal components, including printed circuit boards, wires, buttons, and switches, have been securely mounted or epoxied to the physical enclosure to reduce the risk of damage during transportation or while exposed to harsh weather conditions. Additionally, the implementation of the machine-learning model on the microprocessor can classify heart rhythms with a validated accuracy of over 95%. The non-diagnostic classification system is able to sufficiently recommend a patient for further treatment and diagnosis from a medical professional. With this device, remote clinics can bring intelligent and intuitive cardiovascular care to areas that may otherwise go without.

# About
This project was funded by the Benedictine College School of Engineering. The project was prepared throughout a two-semester senior design course by three senior electrical engineering students. 

# Disclosures
This software is exclusively prepared for this project and has not been designed to function properly in any other capacity. This software uses PlatformIO as the project compilation and organization tool. The software should be imported as a PlatformIO project and is not guaranteed to function properly if compiled in any other way. This software has been tested for use with and deployed specifically on the ESP32-S3-WROOM-2-N32R16V DevKitC-1 v1.1 development board. The software takes advantage of specific GPIO, SPI bus, internal flash, and PSRAM configurations unique to this particular board. The software is not guaranteed to function properly if deployed on any other ESP32 development board.
